# WInd-Time-Series-Data-Analysis
This report is focused on the assessment of a site with properties deemed fairly conducive for the installation of a wind turbine by exploring the wind velocity parameter in that location over a period in May 2018 at a measurement frequency of 3 hours. The unique wind velocity parameters relating to the given geographical location are explored, forecasted statistically and through machine learning, correlated with other parameters and plotted. Finally, the results are chronologically interpreted with a view to objectively determine the siting of a wind turbine at the given coordinates.
The data set used in the time series analysis was sourced from the Weather Research and Forecasting WRF model and specified a May 2018 time frame that included the parameters: surface temperature, surface pressure, wind speed, humidity, precipitation, soil temperature and soil moisture. Also included were several geographical coordinates where these parameters were recorded at 3-hour intervals for the month.
The aim of this time series analysis was to determine the viability of installing and setting up a wind turbine and power station in a given geographical location with specified coordinates. The coordinates selected were of latitude 53.394 and longitude -3.768 which pointed to Colwyn Bay, North Wales. Colwyn Bay is a coastal town and as such has been touted to have a high potential for wind resources in wind velocity, direction and consistency. Hence, this analysis explored the wind velocity parameter of the town to determine site suitability of a wind-backed power generating station.
R was the principal tool used in the pre-processing, plotting, exploratory data analysis, statistical analysis and machine learning algorithms applied to the time series data set. The WRF data set is a time series as its variables are measured at regular time intervals and it aims to capture trends and evolution of the variable with time.
The pre-processing of the data was initiated with the importing of the dataset into R studio after which it was cleaned, wrangled, filtered and formatted to prepare it for exploratory and statistical analysis. Machine learning and forecasting techniques were adopted to predict resultant wind velocity over time and also demonstrate correlation with other parameters of the WRF model. Moreover, plots and visualizations were done  throughout the analysis to provide a clear presentation of trends and relationships. 
